1 - Intro: 
Welcome to my interim presentation about my final year project, its called Primary Mathletes.

2 - Project Idea:
There are three main ideas that I wanted to implement for this
project: to be able to create an application that could be used by primary school
teachers and students to help with learning in maths
to improve retention of information for the students after they finish class,
and to create an application that students will want to use. This last part in 
other words means create a good user experience.

3 - Research: 
Mobile Devices are better than computer - Through reading 
papers while deciding what to do for this project, I came across a number
of different sources that all claimed the same thing. All over the world
people are beginning to choose mobile devices over computers and there are a number
of reasons: computer rooms are a lot of hassle, from the cost of buying all of the
equiptment and renovating a room it becomes a nightmare. It also means that computer
rooms in schools either need to be really big or classes will need to share them.
Whereas you can get a less expensive mobile device whether its a phone or a tablet
and it can have just as much processing power as a laptop these days.
Another paper I read was looking at how younger students were better at retaining
information that they recieved through Mobile learning or M-learning and that 
the gamification of learning imrpoves the interest and attention of students when
studying.

High Quality User Interface - I also found that there was some science behind
a good, high quality user interface especially with color, studies show that
people and especially children respond really well to different colors, sounds
and responsive touch.

4 - Research:
Poor Quality User Interfaces - while researching I also came across some similar
apps to the one I am going to be developing for this project. as you can see from
this one on the screen now its a bit of a UI nightmare. the bright colors may 
be good for children but the small buttons and big block of text outweigh the good.


Outdated Information - As well as having a poor quality user interface the
information found inside the app is well outdated, the book it is 
based off was published in 1999 which obviously isnt ideal for something like maths.

5 - Tech used: 
For the development of the application I decided to use these programs and libraries
and technologies. I decided to use python after using it for the first time at the 
start of the year as I found it to be quite easy and powerful to use. After researching
python I also came across kivy which allows for cross-platform development
and allows me to create nice, adaptive GUIs which completely gets rid of the need
to resize aspects of the app for different devices. I am using a firebase 
because it allows for realtime updating of the database, has built in
authentication for emails and passwords and it integrates well with python.
Then for testing I will be using my own iPhone and an old android I have at home.


6 - System Design: 
Here you can see the architecture of my system. its going to be a 3-tier system.
On the front end the user can either use an android or ios device. These will
hopefully be easy to distribute using the Kivy library. The code and libraries
make up the middle tier and this connects the firebase database using firebases
python library which allows for information to be read and posted instantly.

7 - System Design: 
This is the trello board I am using to manage this project and so 
without knowing it I was actually already implementing a version of the Agile
project management methodology that is called Kanban. In this methodology a kanban
board is used to keep track of everything and it has 3 sections normally, backlog
doing and completed, Ive added a testing column here because something may be
completed but still needs to be tested so I made a seperate board for this.

8 - Project Complexity:
The project complexity will come from creating a user friendly application that is suitable
for both students and teachers, one that doesnt favor either but caters to both.
It will also be complex in the fact that I will be implementing suitable curriculum content
for second class primary students to aid them in their studies
and there will also be complexity in keeping the minigames interesting and engaging while also 
keeping good educational treatment for the students.

9 - Demo:
In the demo I will show you how the middle tier connects with the back end database
and some examples of how kivy creates GUI's.
So you can see here the first page you get brought to when you open the app is the
title page where you can choose to either log in or register if you dont have an account.
Ill get up the database as well so you can see how it updates in real time when you register.
there is some background checks happening here to ensure that no two users can have
the same user name or the same email address. I found out through some research 
that theres actually built in authentication for firebase so I am going to 
probably switch out the check i have created at the moment for that. 
when you register successfully youre brought to the login page which also has some
error checking to ensure that your username and password match. when you enter in
the credentials correctly you get brought to the home screen which is just blank at
the moment but this will be replaced by the main screen for when the user logs in.

10 - Testing:
For testing I am going to attempt to contact one of the primary school teachers I know 
and see if its possible to get a small group of students together to meet and show them the app
and get their feedback before using this feedback to change some of the features of the app.
If this is not possible then I will test the app with my younger cousins and siblings to see
what they think of the app. I will also test the app on some relatives who are not tech-savvy
and see if they can follow along in the app without much hassle because the app is designed
to be used by children who may find it hard to navigate.

11 - Future Work:
show gantt chart
Dev process:
= Increase efficincy of authentication
= Implement minigames
